# Python-api Challenge

This repository contains two programs: 'WeatherPy' and 'VacationPy'.

## WeatherPy 
In this project, a Python script is created to  visualize the weather of over 500 cities of varying distances from the equator.
the "citipy Python library" (https://pypi.python.org/pypi/citipy) and the "OpenWeatherMap API" (https://openweathermap.org/api) are used to create a representative model of weather across cities.
The script does the following:
### Creates Plots to Showcase the Relationship Between Weather Variables and Latitude
Ceate a series of scatter plots to showcase the following relationships:

* Latitude vs. Temperature 
* Latitude vs. Humidity 
* Latitude vs. Cloudiness
* Latitude vs. Wind Speed

### Computes Linear Regression for Each Relationship
Computes the linear regression for each relationship and creates the following scatter plots displaying the model's formulas and the r values:

* Northern Hemisphere: Temperature vs. Latitude
* Southern Hemisphere: Temperature vs. Latitude 
* Northern Hemisphere: Humidity vs. Latitude
* Southern Hemisphere: Humidity vs. Latitude
* Northern Hemisphere: Cloudiness vs. Latitude
* Southern Hemisphere: Cloudiness vs. Latitude
* Northern Hemisphere: Wind Speed vs. Latitude
* Southern Hemisphere: Wind Speed vs. Latitude

<br/><br/>


## VacationPy 

In this project the weather data, the geoViews Python library, and the Geoapify API are used to plan future vacations. A map is created which displeys every city in the DataFrame with a hover message containing city's coordinates, name and humidity.  Then the script defines the ideal weather condition to find hotels in the areas having that conditions:

* A max temperature lower than 27 degrees but higher than 21

* Wind speed less than 4.5 m/s

* A max temperature lower than 27 degrees but higher than 21


A new DataFrame is created to store the city, country, coordinates, and humidity.

For each city, the first hotel located within 10,000 meters of given coordinates found.
A new map is created. On the map, for each city, the hover message shows the coordinates, city name, humidity, hotel name and country.

<br/><br/>

## Setup
To run these scripts, you need to create api_keys.py file in 'WeatherPy' directory and add there your api keys for OpenWeatherMap API and Geoapify API. 

The name of the variable for OpenWeatherMap API must be 'weather_api_key'.

The name of the variable for geoapify_key must be 'geoapify_key'.





## References
This project is a part of UC Berkeley "Data Analysis and Visualisation" Boot Camp education services.
Data generated by Mockaroo (https://mockaroo.com/ ), LLC (2022). Realistic Data Generator.

In projects' descriptions, some paragraphs are copy/pasted from 'Module 6 Challenge' of UC Berkeley Data Analytics and Visualisation Bootcamp course.
The starter files are used as a tamplate.
Script author - Nazeli Mnatsakanyan
 
Apr-12-2023


# python-api-challenge